raas-1398] LUCRETIUS 217

loved piece of land and would see the earth better the
wild fruits through genial fostering and kindly culti-
vation. And they would force the sorests to recede
every day higher and higher up the hill-side and
yield‘the ground below to tilth, in order to have on
the uplands and plains meadows tanks runnels corn·
fields and glad vineyards, andv allow a greygreen
strip os olives to run between and mark the divisione,
spreading itseli over hillocks and valleys and plains;
just as you now see riehly dight with varied beauty
all the ground which they lay out and plant with 2
rows of sweet fruit-trees and enclose all round with
plantations of other goodly trees.

But imitating with the mouth the clear notes os
birds was in use long before men were able to sing in
tune smooth-running verses and give pleasure to the
ear. And the whistlings ol the zephyr through the
hollows of reeds first taught peasants to blow into
hollow stalks. Then step by step they learned sweet
plaintive ditties‚ which the pipe pours forth pressed
by the fingers os the players, heard through pathless
woods and sorests and lawns, through the unfre-
quented haunts of shepherds and abodes os unearthly
calm. These things would soothe and gratisy their
minds when sated with food3 ior then all things os
this kind are welcome. Osten therefore stretched in
groups on the soit grass beside a stream os water
under the boughs os a high tree at no great eost they
would pleasantly resresh their bodies, above all when
the weather smiled and the seasons os the year
painted the green grass with flowers. Then went
round the jest, the tale, the peals of merry laughter;
lor the peasant muse was then in its gloss, then

 

