134 ι LUCRETIUS [mox w

soot at the same time with us and mimic our action,
because from before whatever part oi a mirror you
move away, from that part sorthwith no idols can be
reflected; since nature constrains all things, when
they are carried back and recoil from things, to be
giien back at angles equal to those at which they
impinged.

Bright things again the eyes eschew and shun to
look upon: the sun even blinds them, il you persist
in turning them towards it, because its power is great
and idols are borne through the clear air with great
s downward force from on high, and strike the eyes
and disorder their sastenings. Moreover 'any vivid
brightness often burns the eyes, because it contains
many seeds os fite which malcea way in and beget
pain in the eyes Again whatever the jaundiced look
at, becomes a greenishyellow, because many seeds os
greenish·yellow stream from their body and meet the
idols of things, and many too are mixed up in their
eyes, and these by their insection tinge all things
with sallow hues. Again we see out ol the dark
things which are in the light lor this reason: when
the blaclc air of darkness being the nearer has
first entered and taken possession os the open eyes,
the bright white air follows straightway aiter and
cleanses them so to say and dispels the black
shadows ol the other air; lor this is a great deal
more nimble, a great deal more subtle and more
efficacious. As soon as it has filled with light and
opened up the pas'sages os the eyes which the black
air had before blocked up, iorthwith the idols of
things which are situated in the light follow and
excite them so that we see. This we cannot do

 

