134 J LUCRETIUS [⁸001 rr

soot at the same time with us and mimic our action,
because from before whatever part of a mirror you
move away, from that part forthwith no idols can be
reflected; since nature constrains all thingS, when
they are carried back and recoil from things, to be
giren back at angles equal to those at which they
impinged.

Bright things again the eyes eschew and shun to
look upon: the sun even blinds them, if you persist
in turning them towards it, because its power is great
3ηά idols are borne through the clear air with great
downward force from on high, and strike the eyes
and disorder their fastenings. Moreover 'any vivid
brightness often burns the eyes, because it contains
many seeds of fire which make a way in and beget
pain in the eyes. Again whatever the jaundiced look
at, becomes a greenishyellow, because many seeds of
greenish-yellow stream from their body and meet the
idols of things, 3ηά many too are mixed up in their
eyes, 3ηά these by their infection tinge all things
with sallow hues. Again we see out of the dark
things which 333 in the light for this reason: when
the black alr of darkness being the nearer has
first entered and taken possession of the open eyes,
the bright white air follows straightway after and
cleanses them so to say and dispels the black
shadows of the other air3 for this is a great deal
more nimble, a great deal more subtle and more
efficacious. As soon as it has filled with light and
opened up the pas'sages of the eyes which the black
air had before blocked up, forthwith the idols of
things which are situated in the light follow and
excite them so that we see. This we cannot do

 

