1130-1182] LUCRETIUS 163

to propitiate Venus, since they are troubled by a
disgraceful passion, and often, poor wretch, gives no
thought to his own ills greatest 01 all. The blaclr is

a brune, the filthy and rank has not the love 01 order;

the cat-eyed 'is a miniature Pallas, the stringy and
wizened a gazelle; the dumpy and dwarfish is one 01

the graces, from top to toe all grace ; the big and
overgrown is awe-inspiring and lull 01 dignity. She

is tonguetied, cannot speak, then she has a lisp; the
dumb is bashfu13 then the fite-spit, the teazing‚ the
gossiping turns to a shining lamp. One becomes a
slim darling then when she cannot live from want 01
flesh; and she is only spare, who isbali-dead with
cough Then the fat and big-breasted is a Ceres’

sels big-breasted from Iacchus ; the, pug-nosed is a ¹
she Silenus and a satyress 3 the thick-lipped a very
kiss. It were tedious to attempt to report other
things 01 the kind. Let her however be 01 ever so
great dignity 01 appearance; such that the power 01
Venus goes forth from all her limbs; yet there are
others too; yet have we lived without her before;

yet does she do, and we know that she does, rn ali a·
things the same as the ugly woman; and fumigates (1μῇ
herself, poor wretch, with nauseous perlumes, her ὦ
very maids running from her and giggling behind her
back. But the lover, when shut out,often1n tears lo’*
covers the threshold with flowers and wreaths, and
anoints the haughty doorposts with 01101 marjoram

and imprints kisses, poor wretch, on the (10013.ι
When however he has been admitted, 11 on his
approach but one single breath should come in his
way, he would seek specious reasons for departing, .,
and the longconned deep-drawn compium vomo

 

