83-142] LUCRETIUS 5

contrary find its way into men at their birth, and
whether it perish together with us when severed from
us by death or visit the gloom of Orcus and wastelul
pools or by divine decree find its way into brutes in
our stead, as sang our Ennius who first brought down
from delightiul Helicon a crown ol unfading leaf,
destined'to bright renown throughout Italian clans
of men. And yet with all this Ennius sets forth that
there are Acherusian quarters, publishing it in im·
mortal verses3 though in our passage thither neither
our souls nor bodies hold together, but only certain
idols pale in wondrous wisc. From these places he
tells us the ghost ol everliving Homer uprose before
him and began to shed salt tears and to unsold in
words the nature os things. Wherefore we must well
grasp the principle os things above, the principle by
which the courses of the sun and moon go on, the
force by which every thing on earth proceeds, but
above all we must find out by keen reason what the ·
soul and the nature os the mind consist os, and what
thing it iswhich meets us when awake and srightens
our minds, ii we are under the influence of disease;
meets and irightens us too when we are buried in
sleep; so that we seem to 'see and hear speaking to
’ us iace to face them who are dead, whose bones earth
holds in ,its embrace Nor does my mind fail to

perceive how hard it is to make clear in Latin verses
the dark discoveries of the Greeks, especially as
many points must be dealt with in new terms on
account os the poverty of the language and the
novelty ol the questions. But yet your worth and the
looked-for pleasure of sweet friendship prompt me to
undergo any labour and lead me on to watch the

 

